h2. README

* ER Technology Ltda.
* Author: Juan P. Daza P.
* Year: 2008
* Last modification: 2010-12-02
* Purpose: This program encrypts and decrypts data using generic well known algorithms (trought libgcrypt) and adds the possibility to write the manipulated data on files or standard output.

Crypter is a static library that tries to fill the gap in the libgcrypt library adding some simple byte manipulation, allowing to print the data to standard output or write it to an specified output file.  Also is posible to read data from a encrypted file and then write the plain data to another.

As a static library the makefile generates a libcrypter.a file located in the src folder to easily link to other projects.

h2. Licence
This software is licenced under the GPL version 3.

h2. Prerequisites

This libraries have to be installed in your system:
* "libgpg-error":http://www.gnupg.org/download/index.en.html#libgpg-error
* "libgcrypt":http://www.gnu.org/directory/security/libgcrypt.html

h2. Build

To build all: 
@ $ ./configure@
@ $ make@

h2. Test

There are two executables locates in the tests: modalgen and modaler, the former encrypts data the latter decrypts.  Each one expects three parameters: input file, output file, key, for example:

 $ ./modalgen files/data.xml files/output.erc mydatakey
. Bibliography

Some documentation you must read:
* doc/gcrypt.pdf
* doc/fips-fsm.pdf
* doc/libgcrypt-modules.pdf
* It is also important to read the examples located in the libgcrypt tests folder (see function check_one_cipher in basic.c file)

h2. Internet resources

Free documentation available on internet:
* The libgcrypt reference manual: http://www.fifi.org/doc/libgcrypt-doc/reference.html
* "C99 standard":http://www.open-std.org/JTC1/SC22/WG14/www/docs/n1336.pdf (check the folder for any update of this document)
* "An Introduction to GCC, Brian Gough":http://www.network-theory.co.uk/docs/gccintro/index.html
* "Autotools Book": http://www.freesoftwaremagazine.com/books/autotools_a_guide_to_autoconf_automake_libtool

